#Choose

For a given set of N distinct items, there are N choose K ways of selecting a 
unique combination of K unordered items. The value, N choose K, is known as the
[binomial coefficient](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/BinomialCoefficient.html).


This program, `choose`, takes the set of N items and prints all the
possible subsets of size K.

##Origins

The `choose` program originated from the need to print all valid combinations for a boxed trifecta
on the [Emirates Melbourne Cup](http://melbournecup.com/).

The [Ashgrove/The Gap Lions Club](https://www.facebook.com/AshgroveTheGapLionsClub) wished to run a
sweep wherein each ticket was a boxed (unordered) trifecta. This allowed for 2024 (24 choose 3) tickets
to be potentially sold; a great fundraising opportunity.

The tickets were generated by using an infantile version of `choose` to print all 2024 combinations
in comma-separated form. The resulting file was used as a database to mail-merge into the template.


##Usage

    choose [-t | -c] <item> [<item> ...] k
  
    -t = Print selections separated by tabs ('\t')
    -c = Print selections separated by commas (',') - default
    <item> = Any string or range value. 
    k = The K part of "N choose K" i.e. the size of the subsets to select from the item set.

A range is in the form of "m-n" and is expanded at runtime 
to create one item per number in the range of [m,n].
Either number may be negative, and the range may be descending.

If the only item given is equal to `-`, the program will read the input set from standard input.


##Examples

    $ choose a b c 1
    a
    b
    c
    

    $ choose 1-5 4
    1,2,3,4
    1,2,3,5
    1,2,4,5
    1,3,4,5
    2,3,4,5
    
    $ choose -t 0-3 5-7 6
    0    1    2    3    5    6
    0    1    2    3    5    7
    0    1    2    3    6    7
    0    1    2    5    6    7
    0    1    3    5    6    7
    0    2    3    5    6    7
    1    2    3    5    6    7
    
    $ echo apple banana pear | choose -c - 2
    apple,banana
    apple,pear
    banana,pear
    
There are also many more combinations of strings and ranges which could also be used.

##Compilation

There's only one file, so use whatever compiler you have available and compile the file `choose.cpp`.

For example:

    $ g++ -Wall -Werror -pedantic-errors -std=c++11 -O2 choose.cpp -o choose
    
Or create a Visual Studio project and compile.

Note that C++11 features are used, so your compiler must support at least the following features:

 - [std::stoull](http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/stoul)/[std::stoll](http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/stol)
 - [std::vector::emplace_back](http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/vector/emplace_back)
 - [std::to_string](http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/to_string)
 

##Installation

To install on a unix-like environment, just copy the compiled executable to `/usr/bin`, or any other
directory in your path that makes sense:

    $ sudo cp choose /usr/bin/
    
Under Windows, copy the `choose.exe` file to somewhere like 
`C:\Program Files\anthony-arnold\bin\choose.exe`
and add the directory to the `PATH` environment variable. This will make `choose` available form the
command line.
    
## Contributions

Obviously, there are still heaps of improvements that could be made to `choose`, 
and any contribution would be most welcome.
    
